# Data Type
FASTQ files from RAD-sequencing 
I have the PI overview link from IIHG but am uncertain how to share the data in a concise format to this github. 

### 1. Field Collections and Sample Preparation
#### 1a. Sample collection (completed)
*Schinia* moths were collected as adults and as larvae off of the plants *Iva annua*, *Iva frutescens*, *Ambrosia artemisiifolia* and *Ambrosia triifida* across a wide geographic distribution of sites across Eastern North America (Collection map, Collection glossary). I selected collection sites from both within and outside of the range of the Eastern Agricultural Complex. A majority of the collected individuals were seventh instar larvae, picked off host plant cypselae (fruit/seeds) and immediately put into tubes with 95% ethanol. Three adults were also collected on the cypselae of host plants. 

For the purpose of my study I defined “sites” as collection locations more than 1km apart. Some sites were grouped together for specific sets of analyses if they were less than 25km apart (Collection map). I set a goal of collecting 10 individuals per site, but final collections per site ranged from one individual to 30, with a median of seven individuals. There were a total of 315 individuals collected for this study. 

#### 1b. DNA extraction (completed)

I extracted DNA from all 315 moths using a modified CTAB (Cetyltrimethylammonium bromide) and PCI (Phenol/Chloroform/Isoamyl alcohol) extraction protocol based on Chen et al. (2010). Tissue was collected by bisecting larvae longitudinally, removing internal organs, and utilizing roughly half a centimeter of abdomen for extractions. DNA from each individual was quantified using the fluorescence-based Quant-iT PicoGreen HS dsDNA Assay Kit (Invitrogen, Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR). 

#### 1c. 3RAD library preparation and sequencing (completed)
DNA from all 315 moth samples was sequenced using a restriction site associated DNA sequencing protocol (3RAD), a method that provides efficient and flexible markers for population genetic analysis of non-model organisms that do not have a reference genome sequence (Bayona-Vasquez et al., 2019, Eaton & Overcast, 2020). I chose to use 3RAD over other RAD methods because 3RAD removes unwanted dimers, especially when DNA may be of varying quality (Bayona-Vasquez 2019). I grouped samples into sets of up to 96 individuals randomized by location, host plant, and DNA concentration. Sixteen individuals that were determined to be particularly important for successful downstream analyses were duplicated and sequenced in multiple libraries to ensure sequence availability of these critical samples (Duplicated samples). I selected priority samples based on the relative number of individuals collected from each site and the location of the population. For example, site ELP, Elklick Woodlands Natural Area Preserve, was a priority site because I only had six samples total from this site and it was also one of the easternmost sites. I standardized target input DNA to 60 ng per individual. 3RAD sequencing followed the protocol described in Bayona-Vasques et al (2019), using enzymes Xbal, EcoRI, and Nhel (2019). For digestion, DNAs and restriction enzymes were incubated together at 37 °C for 1 hour. Following digestion, I ligated uniquely assigned Read 1 and Read 2 adapters with 8-11bp to each sample (Indices and adapters). Conditions favorable to adaptor ligation (20 min at 22 °C) were alternately cycled with a secondary digestion (10 min at 37 °C) to cleave any unwanted fragments and adapter dimers. Lastly, I heat-killed restriction enzymes at 80 °C for 20 min. 

I pooled the samples together, assigned iTru7 indexes to each library of indexed samples, and PCR amplified with 15 rounds of high-fidelity PCR starting with 98 °C (2 min) and cycling through 98 °C (20 seconds), 60 °C (15 seconds), 72 °C (30 seconds), 72 °C (10 min)  using the KAPA HotStart kit (KAPA HotStart PCR Kit, KAPA Biosystems, Wilmington, Massachusetts, Indices and adapters). A universal iTru5 Illumina index that included eight random nucleotides was also added to each sample. Prepared samples were then pooled together and checked on a 1% agarose gel to ensure digestion and ligation steps were run effectively. Pooled samples were loaded onto a BluePippin (Sage Science, Beverly, MA) to size select for fragments of 550 ± 50 bp. I checked the fragment size distribution of size selected libraries using the Agilent Model 2100 Bioanalyzer (Agilent, Santa Clara, CA). The completed samples were then quantified using Qubit dsDNA assay kit (Thermo Fisher, Invitrogen, Waltham, MA, USA), pooled at equal concentrations, and sequenced using 150bp paired-end reads on an Illumina NovaSeq6000 Sequencer (Illumina, San Diego, CA) at the Iowa Institute of Human Genomics at the University of Iowa (IIHG). 

#### 1d. Demultiplexing (completed)
The IIHG demultiplexed raw sequences and removed Illumina indices (i7, i5) (Indices and adapters). The data were cleaned using the process_RADtags. I used the process_RADtags pipeline for paired-end reads implemented in Stacks2 (v2.61; Rochette et al., 2019) to demultiplex the data by barcode adapters (Indices and adapters), remove restriction enzyme cut sites, and eliminate low quality reads that scored below a quality threshold of 90%. 

I inspected the sixteen prioritized individuals that were sequenced in both sets and for each pair retained the duplicate that had the most reads. When reads in both duplicates were lower than 1,000, I pooled duplicates together (Duplicated samples). 
